business language learning from apec hrdwg wiki as part of international education week 2010, apec has expanded on several themes of the seminar on " language education : an essential for a global economy, " to provide a guide for students and instructors interested in the critical importance of business language for strengthening business relations in a global context. these themes include business in the 21st century ; cross cultural awareness for 21st century business ; language for 21st century business ; business language learning ; and business language policy. in business language instruction, we learn that different economies use different methodologies by which to teach and learn the subject of business. we find that conflict may arise when these differing methodologies come together in a single classroom. another application of advanced communications technologies may be found in the classroom, where traditional textbooks may be supplemented with electronic media such as video clips, as well as live information from internet newsfeeds, essentially making textbook materials come alive. students today may not learn history, geography, and science as it was taught a few years ago. they may actually view and experience events via the internet as if they were present during the moment in which they took place. video conferencing in the classroom may have other applications, such as providing students access to language teachers in foreign countries and to subject matter experts thousands of miles away, who can appear in the classroom and guest lecture as if they were actually there. these powerful new communications technologies have enhanced business language instruction in schools and universities, as evidenced from the scenario presented below. - technology provides web - based content to expand, complement, and supplement textbooks and teacher instruction. - online educational materials blend face - to - face learning with digital teaching and curricula. - technology such as virtual