the operations layer defines the operational processes and procedures necessary to deliver information technology ( it ) as a service. this layer leverages it service management concepts that can be found in prevailing best practices such as itil and mof. the main focus of the operations layer is to execute the business requirements defined at the service delivery layer. cloud - like service attributes cannot be achieved through technology alone and require a high level of it service management maturity. change management process is responsible for controlling the life cycle of all changes. the primary objective of change management is to eliminate or at least minimize disruption while desired changes are made to services. change management focuses on understanding and balancing the cost and risk of making the change versus the benefit of the change to either the business or the service. driving predictability and minimizing human involvement are the core principles for achieving a mature service management process and ensuring changes can be made without impacting the perception of continuous availability. standard ( automated ) change non - standard ( mechanized ) change it is important to note that a record of all changes must be maintained, including standard changes that have been automated. the automated process for standard changes should include the creation and population of the change record per standard policy in order to make sure auditability. automating changes also enables other key principles such as : the service asset and configuration management process is responsible for maintaining information on the assets, components, and infrastructure needed to provide a service. critical configuration data for each component, and its relationship to other components, must be accurately captured and maintained. this configuration data should include past and current states and future - state forecasts, and be easily available to those who need it. mature service asset and configuration management processes are necessary for achieving predictability.