transferable knowledge and a range of intellectual abilities drawn from different modes of inquiry across disciplines are essential components of any liberal education. these courses help students develop important academic capacities for use during their undergraduate career and in the rapidly - changing world they will enter after college. ( one writing - intensive w - 1 course in the fall of the first year ) students will develop writing, reading, speaking, listening, and information literacy skills necessary for collegiate - level academic work. students will develop capacities for independent academic work and become self - regulated learners. ( one course from the list of designated courses ) students will develop a unified understanding of scientific theory and practice in modern natural science. students will demonstrate an understanding of the development of science as an intellectual pursuit and of the ways in which scientific ideas are formulated, modified, and come to be accepted. students will demonstrate skill in the application of scientific techniques and methods, including the collection, analysis, and interpretation of data, and communication of results. ( one course from the list of designated courses ; not required for class of 2014 ) students will study language as a complex multifunctional phenomenon - as a system for communicating thought and information and as an essential element of human thought processes, perceptions, and self - expression - that allows students to understand different peoples and their communities. students will examine the world, their own culture, and their own language through the lens of a foreign language and culture. integrated perspectives course ( one team - taught interdisciplinary course taken during the sophomore year from the list of designated courses ; not required for class of 2014 ) students will recognize, construct, and evaluate connections among different intellectual methods, ways of learning, and bodies of knowledge.