why can some people drink heavily and never become alcoholics when other people get addicted so quickly? contributing factors to the development of alcoholism why some people can use and even abuse alcohol without ever developing alcoholism, and why some people seem unusually susceptible to alcoholism, remains a poorly understood phenomenon. there is a genetic component to alcoholism, and people who grow up in alcoholic homes are far more likely to become alcoholics themselves. children born to alcoholic parents, but raised in homes without alcohol abuse or addiction are also predisposed to alcoholism, so we do know that genetics plays an important role. but all people genetically predisposed to alcoholism do not develop dependencies, and some people with no genetic history of alcoholism end up battling the disease for years. it is now accepted that although a genetic predisposition plays an important influence in the development of the disease, that social and environmental factors are in fact the lager influences towards alcohol abuse or alcoholism. in addition to genetic influences, the mayo clinic considers that there are three additional primary influences to alcohol abuse or alcoholism. emotional states or emotional stressors can induce alcohol abuse and alcoholism people may use alcohol excessively in response to frequent or significant emotional disturbances or stresses. when alcohol is used with enough frequency as an emotional management or stress coping tool the risk of dependency or alcoholism increases greatly. there is also likely a bio physical link with stress and alcohol abuse, and stress hormones have been casually linked to increased alcohol consumption and a greater risk for alcoholism. people who use alcohol to deal with life's problems or stresses are at a greater risk to develop alcoholism. the co - presence of a corresponding psychiatric condition people suffering through psychiatric conditions like depression, bi polar disorder, borderline personality disorder or anxiety disorders are at