if farmers are to increase food production and food security, they need better access to agricultural support systems, such as credit, technology, extension services and agricultural education, as well as to the rural organizations that often channel other services. both men and women smallholders and poor farmers have frequently been cut off from these essential agricultural support systems, which seldom take into account the different responsibilities and needs of men and women farmers. in spite of their enormous potential and their crucial roles in agricultural production, women in particular have insufficient access to production inputs and support services. this trend underlines the need to implement measures aimed at enhancing the access of small farmers, especially women, to production inputs - particularly since the working environment of development organizations has changed as a result of market liberalization and a reduced role for the state worldwide. national agricultural extension systems are no exception to this rule, and must respond by making internal and external adjustments. great attention is required so that the adjustments do not become detrimental to women and men small farmers. for example, fao's field experiences over the last decade have pointed to the need for extension programmes that are more strategically planned, needs - based, participatory and problem solving. women's access to and use of agricultural support systems is also severely limited by the heavy burden on time and energy that results from their triple responsibilities - productive activities ( such as work in the fields ), reproductive activities ( such as child rearing, cooking and household chores ) and community management. in order to improve production, farmers need access to financial capital. buying seeds, fertilizer and other agricultural inputs often requires short - term loans, which are repaid when the crops are harvested. installing major improvements, such as irrigation pumps, or