- coming soon. master naturalist for teachers the teacher ’ s master naturalist program incorporates best practices for systemic school reform - it requires that the school ’ s principal initiate the partnership, and that each school send a team of lead teachers who are responsible for implementing their school ’ s science and math programs. lci adapted its master naturalist curriculum to provide a program that teaches teachers how to use experiential learning most effectively to improve their school ’ s science and math programs. participants engage in research and educational experiences designed to empower them to teach from a first person perspective, sharing their personal adventures with their classes. during workshops, teachers set and check traps for fish, reptiles, and amphibians, conduct flora and fauna surveys, and collect and identify marine invertebrates and other organisms. as teams of teachers graduate from the course they continue to receive support for school - based projects from lci staff and the local master naturalist association. the program began in 2007 - 2008 with two pilot schools, and has expanded to eight schools during the 2009 - 2010 school year. teachers receive master naturalist certification and continuing education credit after completing the year - long program. learning expeditions schools the goal of the learning expeditions schools program is to use environmental science as a theme to integrate learning about science, social studies, math, and language arts. the program is a partnership between the lowcountry institute, clemson university's youth learning institute, and beaufort county schools. the interdisciplinary lessons include field trips, virtual field trips using video and powerpoint programs, and hands - on activities in the classroom. these lessons use science standards to teach students how geography and climate determine plant communities present which, in turn, influence the economy and the history of the region. math is integrated