too many of our young people are caught up in conflicts every day that they do not know how to manage - - teasing, jealousy, and physical aggression. juvenile delinquency and violence are symptoms of youth's inability to manage conflict in their lives. teaching youth how to manage conflict in a productive way can help reduce incidents of violent behavior. conflict resolution education is a beneficial component of a comprehensive violence prevention and intervention program in schools and communities. conflict resolution education encompasses problem solving in which the parties in dispute express their points of view, voice their interests, and find mutually acceptable solutions. conflict resolution education programs help the parties recognize that while conflict happens all the time, people can learn new skills to deal with conflict in nonviolent ways. the programs that appear to be most effective are comprehensive and involve multiple components such as the problem - solving processes and principles of conflict resolution, the basics of effective communication and listening, critical and creative thinking, and an emphasis on personal responsibility and self - discipline. effective conflict resolution education programs can : four common strategies for approaching conflict resolution experts identify four school - based conflict resolution strategies that can be replicated in other settings. these are commonly referred to as : ( 1 ) peer mediation, ( 2 ) process curriculum, ( 3 ) peaceable classrooms, and ( 4 ) peaceable schools. in all four approaches, conflict resolution education is viewed as giving youth nonviolent tools to deal with daily conflicts that can lead to self - destructive and violent behaviors. it is up to each local school district to decide how conflict resolution education will be integrated into its overall educational environment. the expectation is that when youth learn to recognize and constructively address what takes place before conflict or differences lead to violence, the incidence