federal and state laws emphasize the importance of parents / guardians as key decision makers in the educational process. child study team personnel share many common skills such as child advocacy, understanding of school functioning, knowledge and implementation of special education law, case management, transition planning, inservice training, research, and community collaboration. however, each discipline approaches the intervention and eligibility process from a different perspective based on the training and skills of each profession. school psychologists are specialists with training and expertise in psychology as it is applied to education. they use their training and skills to collaborate with parents / guardians, educators, and other professionals to ensure that every child learns in a safe and supportive environment. school psychologists use their understanding of school organization and effective learning to help students realize their academic and social potentials. they tailor their services to the particular needs of each child and each situation. school psychologists are trained to assess and counsel students with behavioral, emotional, and educational concerns through consultation, prevention, intervention, crisis management, evaluation, and program development. a psychological assessment shall be the responsibility of a school psychologist employed by the district board of education. the psychological assessment should include standardized and functional appraisals of a student ’ s current cognitive, intellectual, adaptive, social, emotional and behavioral status in the context of his / her environments. the assessment should include consultation with parents, educators, and relevant professionals ; a student interview ; and observation of the student in other than a testing situation. school social workers provide unique services to students and their families, helping the students attain maximum benefits from their educational programs. the school social worker's knowledge of social, emotional, cultural and economic differences among children and families enable them to be the link between school, family and