sev331 : focus vocational skills - 1hr ( 2012 - 2013 ) curriculum program : special education course title : focus vocational skills - 1hr calendar year : 2012 - 2013 grade level : 9 - 12 course length : 36 weeks major concepts / content : the focus vocational skills course provides students with the knowledge and skills necessary to identify career options, access community resources, and practice work - related behaviors. the course provides guided " on - the - job " practice in school and community settings for a range of post - secondary careers. the skills necessary for success in the working environment are emphasized to include decision making, problem solving, critical thinking, interpersonal relationships, technology, workplace readiness, and communication. major instructional activities : practical application and generalization of course concepts occurs in natural settings such as home, school, and community. instructional activities include personal and career planning, resume writing, interview skills, investigating personality traits associated with various types of jobs, and completion of interest inventories / forms / applications. students have multiple opportunities to research various types of jobs, identify necessary income for post - secondary living expenses, research potential income for diverse jobs, and review employment sections of newspaper and internet. employer expectations will be emphasized to include decision making and problem solving skills, communication and social skills with supervisors and co - workers, following directions ( oral & written ), workplace readiness skills, and rights and responsibilities of employees. work - based strategies appropriate for this course include study trips to community businesses, job shadowing, and service learning. activities may require the student to be knowledgeable of the use of related technology, tools, and equipment. major evaluative techniques : students will be evaluated through informal and formal assessments. multiple authentic assessments will be used