tutorials - grants workshop resources for history & social studies teachers resources and links compiled and annotated by salem in history staff. franklin and eleanor roosevelt institution grants franklin d. roosevelt presidential library and museum the roosevelt presidential library provides grants of up to $ 2500 for research in their archives on the roosevelt era. see website for application and deadlines. this page of the h - net website includes a listing of upcoming grant deadlines. grants for individuals michigan state university the msu library website has a large list of grants available to individuals in a number of areas, including history and education. kennedy library research grants john f. kennedy presidential library the jfk library offers several grants for researchers utilizing the collections of the library. although preference is given for phd candidates, all proposals are welcome. stipends range from $ 500 to $ 2500. see website for details. local cultural council program massachusetts cultural council through the mcc local cultural council program, cities and towns make grant money available for arts and education programs in their communities. the website has a list of contacts for local cultural councils. the millipore foundation funds programs including educational institutions and programs with an emphasis on grades k through 12 and culture. presidential libraries grants national archives & records administration funding is available from private foundations for research in several presidential libraries, including the john f. kennedy library in boston, the franklin d. roosevelt library in new york and the herbert hoover library in iowa. grants range from $ 500 to $ 2500. rogers family foundation the rogers family foundation was funded by the owners of eagle - tribune publishing company. they fund programs in the area of historical preservation, education and youth development, among others. save our history grants the history channel offers grants up to $ 10, 000 for